# build_executable_jar
@Author: Carlos Patino 

The intention of this project was to demostrate the Executable Jar Generation without IDE, besides a trivial task, many people nowadays does not know what happens behind the scenes when compiling a java file, how to execute the application and how to package everything into a jar for distribution. 

# The project
It is a really simple plan structure where you have couple of java source files and then you compile all that manually. This will generate .class files and from there you can execute those (assuming they have a main method) and the final step is to package all that using the jar util and ready to distribute. All command line base

## Compile
Make sure you have git installed, jsdk 8 installed and confiured (available in your path by defining JAVA_HOME).
```sh
git clone "the project"
cd "the project"
java -v
javac com/test/*
```
This will create .class files (The byte code). 

## Run
To run the code you need to execute the next commands (without .class):
```sh
java com.test.Main
```
You will see the *Executed* word printed in the console.

## Package
Using the Jar util, we will package our code into a jar, adding the MANIFEST.MF to make it executable. The MANIFEST.MF can be autogenerated or included.

In this example we will generate the MANIFEST.MF using the jar tool to package everything (-e option)

```sh
#This will create a jar file with the .class files
jar -cfe MyApp.jar com.test.Main com/test/*.class
# This will print the content of the file:
jar -tf MyApp.jar
```

Finally you can execute it:
```sh
java -jar MyApp.jar
```

Alternativly we can include the manually created MANIFEST.MF (We need to specify the class with the main method and adding an enter at the end):
```text
Manifest-Version: 1.0
Created-By: 11.0.4 (Oracle Corporation)
Main-Class: com.test.Main

```

Then 
```sh
#This will create a jar file with the .class files
jar -cfm MyApp.jar META-INF/MANIFEST.MF com/test/*.class
# This will print the content of the file:
jar -tf MyApp.jar
```
